this is my messy work table where I'm
now pursuing my new hobby of making
electric radio-controlled foamy
airplanes scratch-built foe means is
that our cold I'm using currently
pre-existing glider kits sold you know
to kids and having fun modifying them
this one here up against the wall is the
completed one the one that Dino and I
made over a couple months with the
electric motor in place this here is a
visual mock-up of a flying wing this one
I'm probably not going to fly I'm just
testing design things including having
canards on an extended fuselage vertical
stabilizers on the main wings and then
in the case since it is a flying wing of
I'm going to have attached at the back
of the wing a flap that's in essence be
trailing edge camber I'm gonna try to
devise a hands using drinking straws
that will make it basically be somewhat
upright position by default which is
required on all flying wings I'm going
to have fun using this beat-up old plane
to test the concepts I've now bought
several more flying eagles kits online
here's the fuselage of one and this is
going to become the actual basis of the
flying wing this one arrived in the mail
with the tail broken off which I can
actually adapt to I'm going to sever the
tail that to pretty much duplicate that
shape it's going to be rear mounted
motor brushless electric motor like on
the first plane here one of those
remarkable high-torque electric motors
what I'm considering doing with this
flying wing is two versions leaving it
with a long extended fuselage nose like
that with canards or shaving it off so
it'll be a true flying wing
configuration the other one I'm having
fun working with is this lifting body
it's sold as an ex-racer it's got a
beautiful sculptural shape the tail fin
I stuck on again as a visual mock-up
with just clear packing tape it's a true
lifting body like the dinosaur series of
early 60s the lifting bodies
this one arrived in the mail badly
damaged so I went ahead and glued the
broken pieces back on just to again
experiment with me mainly visual things
the first thing I did was add that
vertical stabilizer mainly for looks but
also I think it'll help but fly better
and that's where the rudder will be
attached once I learn how to work with
servos when I tossed it once I repaired
it in my neighbor's lawn in the absence
of a vertical stabilizer it seemed
really quite unstable so I put this one
on mainly for visuals but I think once I
actually commit to flight it's going to
help it what I'm also thinking of doing
is this lip here seems to meet it could
be a very good place to add canard wings
to help keep the nose up I can keep
picturing small canard wings with a
lifting true airfoil lifting shape
instead of just you know flat fin
sticking out I love the fact that this
thing is so sculptural they did I think
they did a very good job of sculpting
one piece of foam into an
aerodynamically correct form this one I
also almost for sure I want to be rear
prop-driven I think I'm going to have to
probably get a smaller motor and a
smaller propeller since it's so much
more petite of a plane than the big
letter that we made I'm loving my new
hobby I'd never heard of a brushless
electric motors until Dino and I started
doing this together they're remarkably
cheap I think this motor here I think I
paid eight bucks plus shipping
incredible amount of power I'm going to
have to stockpile servos etc to start
using on these other planes and the fun
again of this lifting body is where am I
going to put the ailerons part of me
says to go ahead and cut out the back
section of the wing right there and make
an aileron there part of me says to
extend an aileron behind it but I'm now
leaning more and more towards the idea
of having the aileron extend off from
this last portion of the wing or maybe
even the wing tip which extends
downwards somewhat but it's really fun
free associating with these pre-existing
forms the next step once I get a little
more adept at
mechanicals is I want to buy blue cork
insulation foam from Lowe's and make a
foam scratch built glider completely
from scratch and that way I can have
total control the design theme but in
the meantime modifying these kids toys
is fun as health or cheap the ex-racer
was eight dollars plus shipping
the flying eagles were I believe 11
dollars plus shipping the one that's
completed if I add up all the total
costs the motor speed controller servos
well well Dino gave me the servos but I
think the costs are minimal I think
literally there's maybe maybe 30 bucks
tied up in this point and that's the
Hobby I can afford it's fun because it
harkens to an earlier era my life when I
was making these origami planes in
Colorado this one that's probably made
this one in 92 93 this is one of my
stealth era gommi planes I was making
back then that are really
aerodynamically correct and since I've
been making airplanes since I was a kid
and as you can see here I've been
collecting images of airplanes all my
life I just I've always liked
aerodynamic things my home office here
is just crawling with images of cool
planes and crafts it's natural that in
my late 50s I would have run to somebody
who would teach me a new hobby where I
can actually get sustained flight the
trick now for me is to learn how to
launch and then to understand better the
mechanicals but I want to share with
folks this new new hobby and the current
progress of things and once I have a
completed or semi completed model either
the flying wing or the lifting body I'll
shoot another clip and share with you
folks have a good one
bye-bye